Kagi Summary
===========

Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Keyboard shortcuts
Web
Academic
Forums
PDF Files
Programming
World News
Feedback
Help
Settings
Web
Images
Videos
Podcasts
News
Maps
Malaysia

Order By

Time

All Results

Quick Answer
28 relevant results in 1.05s. 7% unique Kagi results.

Showing results containing exact quoted keywords only. Search without quotes.

See all search operators.
The Last of the Mohicans - Wikipedia
en.wikipedia.org  › wiki › The_Last_of_the_Mohicans
Dec 26, 2008 The Last of the Mohicans: A Narrative of 1757 is an historical romance novel written by James Fenimore Cooper in 1826.

    The Last of the Mohicans tells the story of the French and Indian War in the 1750s from the perspective of British colonists and Native American allies.
    The novel focuses on the siege of Fort William Henry and the transport of Colonel Munro's daughters to safety with the help of Natty Bumppo, Chingachgook, and Uncas.
    The novel portrays the myth that Native Americans were disappearing due to assimilation or death, which allowed settlers to view themselves as the original inhabitants.
    The characters in the novel represent a microcosm of the emerging American society, especially in terms of race.
    The novel popularized the romanticized images of the frontiersman and the noble "red man."
    The characters Chingachgook, Uncas, Hawkeye, Magua, Cora, and Alice play important roles in the plot.
    The novel has been adapted into numerous films, TV shows, operas, and comics over the years.
    While popular in its time, the novel was also criticized for being overly wordy and sympathetic to Euro-Americans.
    The phrase "the last of the Mohicans" has come to represent the sole survivor of a noble race or type, derived from the novel.
    The novel has influenced popular perceptions of Native Americans and the frontier period of American history.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans | Introduction & Summary | Britannica
britannica.com  › topic › The-Last-of-the-Mohicans-novel
Jul 9, 2016 An introduction to and summary of the novel The Last of the Mohicans by James Fenimore Cooper.

    The novel The Last of the Mohicans takes place in 1757 during the French and Indian War.
    The main character is Natty Bumppo, also known as Hawkeye, who is in middle age at the height of his powers.
    The story involves brutal battles between the Iroquois and French allies, narrow escapes, and revenge.
    The beauty of the unspoiled wilderness and sorrow at its disappearance are important themes.
    A key event in the novel is the massacre at Fort William Henry during the French and Indian War.
    Cooper draws on the Native American captivity narrative genre to create a template for American popular fiction.
    Hawkeye works as a scout for the British with two Delaware companions, Chingachgook and his son Uncas.
    Much of the novel involves Hawkeye and friends rescuing Cora and Alice Munro, the daughters of a British colonel, from captivity.
    Cooper's racial politics are conservative and he laments the destruction of the wilderness and Native Americans.
    All characters are shown to inevitably succumb to the forces of progress, typical of 19th century American ideology.

Discuss this document
The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Last of the Mohicans, by James ...
gutenberg.org  › files › 940 › 940-h › 940-h.htm
Mar 25, 2021 The Last of the Mohicans. A Narrative of 1757. by James Fenimore Cooper. Contents. INTRODUCTION. CHAPTER I. CHAPTER ...

    The passages describe life on the frontier between the Hudson River and the Great Lakes, where there was fierce conflict between Native Americans and European settlers.
    The Native Americans, particularly the Iroquois, fought fiercely to defend their land from the encroaching settlers.
    The main characters include Duncan Heyward, Hawkeye the scout, Uncas the Mohican, and Cora and Alice Munro, two sisters.
    Hawkeye helps guide Duncan, Cora, and Alice through dangerous territory to escape pursuing Huron warriors led by Magua.
    There are descriptions of the beautiful but dangerous wilderness landscape, including forests, streams, and cliffs.
    The group has several close calls and narrow escapes from the Huron warriors, thanks to Hawkeye's skills and knowledge of the land.
    There are scenes of conflict and violence as the Huron warriors attack the group and are fought off.
    The passages also describe emotional moments as the characters bond and support each other through the ordeal.
    There are themes of courage, sacrifice, and perseverance in the face of danger.
    The passages suggest that Cora and Alice find a sense of belonging and happiness with the Delaware tribe at the end.

Discuss this document
Summary and Analysis Cooper's Three Prefaces
cliffsnotes.com  › literature › l › the-last-of-the-mohicans › summary-and-analysis
Summary Cooper's preface to the 1826 edition is a kind of defense, ... The Last of the Mohicans ... Summary and Analysis Cooper's Three Prefaces. Summary.

    Cooper places the Mohicans as a disappearing tribe of the Algonquin stock, bounded by the Penobscot and Potomac rivers and the Atlantic and Mississippi.
    To the north of the Algonquin were the Iroquois confederacy of Six Nations.
    Cooper warns young ladies, bachelors, and clergymen against reading his "shocking" book.
    The 1831 preface discusses the Asiatic origin of the Indian and their opposing attitudes in war and peace.
    Cooper sees Hawkeye as a "fanciful" character that provides a witness to the progress of the American nation.
    The Leather-Stocking tales chronicle the novels in order and are preeminent among Cooper's works.
    Leather-Stocking is a "beau-ideal" character that combines the best of civilized and savage life.
    Leather-Stocking is a "creation" rather than a realistic character.
    Cooper's prefaces show his growing reflections on his novels, from specific historic details to general comments on the ideal in fiction.
    The prefaces aim to clarify and justify the novels that follow.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Chapters I–II Summary & Analysis ...
sparknotes.com  › lit › mohicans › section1
A summary of Part X (Section1) in James Fenimore Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans. Learn exactly what happened in this chapter, scene, or section of The ...

    The novel takes place during the French and Indian War. The land is as dangerous as the war, with hostile Indian tribes.
    The French general Montcalm has allied with Indian tribes and is moving an army to take Fort William Henry from the British.
    The British general Webb sends reinforcements and Major Heyward to accompany Colonel Munro's daughters Alice and Cora to the fort.
    An Indian runner named Magua agrees to guide Heyward and the women to the fort using an Indian shortcut.
    They meet a stranger named David Gamut, a psalmodist who worships by singing psalms.
    Gamut joins their party and sings a religious song, ignoring Magua's warning about hostile Indians in the forest.
    Major Heyward confidently thinks they are safe, but fails to notice an Indian peering at them from the trees.
    The novel establishes war as its foundation, using both historical facts and imagined events.
    The characters illustrate how different cultures interact, though Cooper gestures at eventual white dominance.
    Even Gamut's knowledge does not dignify him, and Heyward also misjudges the danger, showing his inflated sense of skill.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Chapters III–IV Summary & Analysis ...
The conflict between Magua, the Huron, and his Mohican enemies in Chapter IV shows that The Last of the Mohicans does not characterize all Indians as identical ...

    The story introduces Hawkeye, a white hunter, and Chingachgook, his Mohican ally. They have an interracial friendship despite their racial differences.
    Chingachgook and his son Uncas are the last remaining members of the Mohican tribe.
    Hawkeye insists on his "genuine and enduring whiteness."
    Hawkeye and Chingachgook challenge the separation of white and Indian cultures that was politically and socially enforced at the time.
    Magua, a Huron guide, is suspected of leading Heyward's party astray.
    The Huron tribe is described as untrustworthy, unlike the Mohican or Delaware tribes.
    Hawkeye considers shooting Magua for treachery but Heyward opposes violence.
    Magua escapes after becoming suspicious of Heyward's intentions.
    The novel touches on tensions between an expanding American culture and diminishing Native American populations.
    Cooper's portrayal of some Indian characters falls back on stereotypes but he also seeks to challenge those stereotypes.

Discuss this document
Last of the Mohicans What's Up With the Epigraph? | Shmoop
shmoop.com  › study-guides › literature › last-of-the-mohicans › analysis
Writing Style · The Last of the Mohicans · Disguises · Narrator Point of View ... interesting explanation is that the epigraphs serve as chapter titles.

    The novel Last of the Mohicans uses epigraphs from Shakespeare and other old dead white authors to legitimize itself as high art.
    The epigraphs also serve as chapter titles for the novel.
    The epigraph for Chapter 17 comes from a Thomas Gray poem and refers to the weaving of fate, foreshadowing the massacre that occurs in that chapter.
    The epigraphs function as a lead-in to the events of each chapter.
    Cooper wanted readers to enter each chapter with a foreshadowed sense of what was going to happen.
    Cooper uses epigraphs from other authors.
    The epigraphs serve as chapter titles.
    The epigraph for Chapter 17 refers to the weaving of fate and foreshadows the massacre that occurs.
    The epigraphs function as a lead-in to the events of each chapter.
    Cooper wanted readers to have a foreshadowed sense of what would happen in each chapter.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Study Guide | Literature Guide | LitCharts
litcharts.com  › lit › the-last-of-the-mohicans
Jun 14, 2014 Welcome to the LitCharts study guide on James Fenimore Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans. Created by the original team behind SparkNotes, LitCharts are the world's best literature guides.

    The book The Last of the Mohicans by James Fenimore Cooper tells the story of the founding of the United States from the perspective of Native Americans and settlers.
    The novel depicts the struggle between English, French and Native American tribes for control of land in North America during the French and Indian War in the mid-1700s.
    Cooper attempts to objectively portray Native American culture and treat it as a complex, changing civilization rather than a stereotype.
    The protagonist Hawkeye represents the development of an American character and temperament through his interactions with settlers and Native Americans.
    The Last of the Mohicans was published in 1826 and was part of Cooper's five-novel series featuring the character Natty Bumppo, also known as Hawkeye.
    The 1992 film adaptation starring Daniel Day-Lewis as Hawkeye was popular with critics and audiences, though it diverged from the novel.
    Cooper was one of the first major American authors and his work influenced later American writers like Thoreau, Hawthorne and Melville.
    The novel is set in the forests of upstate New York near Lake George in 1757.
    The antagonist is a Huron named Magua who murders Uncas and is then killed by Hawkeye.
    The Last of the Mohicans is considered an important early example of the frontier and historical fiction genres in American literature.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Chapter 3 Summary & Analysis | LitCharts
Need help with Chapter 3 in James Fenimore Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans? Check out our revolutionary side-by-side summary and analysis.

    Chingachgook is one of the moral centers of the novel. He is the father of Uncas, the native hero.
    Chingachgook explains how the noble Mohicans were corrupted by the arrival of the white men and the loss of their land.
    The Mohicans have long been enemies of the Iroquois tribe.
    Uncas, son of Chingachgook, arrives and asks Hawkeye for help fighting the Maquas and the French the next day.
    Hawkeye agrees to help but says they must eat and rest first to have strength for battle.
    Uncas kills a deer to provide food for them.
    Hawkeye, Uncas, and Chingachgook exhibit patience when faced with difficult decisions. They discuss, eat, and sleep on decisions before acting.
    This means the three warriors tend not to act impulsively or make rash decisions.
    Heyward's party is approaching in the forest, heard by the hooves of their horses.
    The focus is on the interactions and relationships between the native characters Chingachgook, Uncas, and Hawkeye.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Chapter 23 Summary & Analysis | LitCharts
Need help with Chapter 23 in James Fenimore Cooper's The Last of the Mohicans? Check out our revolutionary side-by-side summary and analysis.

    Heyward disguises himself as a healer to gain access to the Huron village. His French language skills help convince the Hurons of his disguise.
    Uncas, the Delaware captive, manages to evade capture during the Huron ritual ordeal, earning his right to survival.
    The other Huron captive, Reed-that-bends, is tried for cowardice in battle and ceremonially stabbed to death by the Huron chief.
    The ritual killing of Reed-that-bends shocks Heyward and makes him worry he could be found out.
    The narrative style does not fully explain native rituals but allows them to develop organically, clarifying them later. This makes some moments difficult to follow but recedes the narrator.
    Heyward realizes Uncas is one of the captives brought to the village.
    The violence during Reed-that-bends' killing is described vividly and shocks the narrator.
    Heyward compliments the Hurons for their victory at Fort William Henry to gain their trust.
    Heyward's disguise does not seem convincing but fools the Hurons into thinking he has healing powers.
    Medicine men in native societies had both medical and spiritual roles, and Heyward imitates their preacher-like rhetoric.

Discuss this document
GC115-Understanding-Media-and-Culture-An-Introduction-to-Mass ...
palomar.edu  › users › lpayn › 115 › GC115-Understanding-Media-and-Culture-An-Introduction-to-Mass-Communication.pdf
PDF
Chapter 3: Books ... These three crazes all relied on various forms of media to create ... James Fenimore Cooper, author of The Last of the Mohicans.
The Last of the Mohicans movie review (1992) | Roger Ebert
rogerebert.com  › reviews › the-last-of-the-mohicans-1992
25 Sept 1992 ... Much has been made about how authentic "The Last of the Mohicans" is, about how the cast learned wilderness survival skills and how every ...
Chapter 1 History in: A Poetic History of the Oceans
brill.com  › display › book › 9789004426702 › BP000002.xml
Jul 2, 2022 "Chapter 1 History" published on 02 Jul 2022 by Brill. ... Tales of which The Last of the Mohicans (1826) is arguably the most famous.
The Last of the Mohicans Summary and Study Guide | SuperSummary
supersummary.com  › the-last-of-the-mohicans › summary
Oct 9, 2018 Thanks for exploring this SuperSummary Study Guide of “The Last of the Mohicans” by James Fenimore Cooper. A modern alternative to SparkNotes and CliffsNotes, SuperSummary offers high-quality Study Guides that feature detailed chapter summaries and analysis of major themes...

    The novel follows Natty Bumppo and his Mohican friends escorting Colonel Munro's daughters through the wilderness during the French and Indian War.
    Magua, a Huron native, is initially guiding the group but betrays them.
    Magua is seeking revenge on Colonel Munro for humiliating him after introducing him to alcohol.
    Magua also wants to force Cora, one of Munro's daughters, to live with him.
    Fort William Henry surrenders to the French forces and the Native American allies attack the British soldiers and civilians as they exit the fort.
    Magua recaptures Cora and Alice, and the others follow their trail.
    Heyward disguises himself to rescue Alice from the Huron camp while Bumppo disguises himself as a bear to help.
    The group rescues Cora from the Delaware camp but Magua is also there.
    A Huron kills Cora, Magua kills Uncas, and Bumppo kills Magua in the ensuing battle.
    Tamenund's speech at the end mourns the losses of Native Americans at the hands of European colonists.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Analysis - eNotes.com
enotes.com  › topics › last-mohicans › in-depth
Sep 18, 2016 Immediately after the publication of the address in national newspapers, Cooper began work on The Last of the Mohicans. This work, conceived both in tribute to and as apology to the American Indian, was the first American fiction to be accepted in Europe as a significant and serious novel.

    The Last of the Mohicans is told from a third-person limited point of view, giving the events and actions of the characters but not their thoughts.
    The novel focuses on Natty Bumppo or "Hawkeye," who appears in all five of Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales novels.
    Though set in 1757, Cooper took many historical liberties in the novel. It is more of a historical romance than an accurate historical account.
    Places discussed in the novel include Fort William Henry, Fort Oswego, Lake George, and Lake Champlain.
    The novel was published in the 1820s when the U.S. government was pushing Native Americans further west and destroying their way of life.
    Cooper's novel set the public's perception of Native Americans for years to come, though it focused on a past that was already gone by the 1820s.
    During the French and Indian War, the British saw the Native Americans as a nuisance, while by the 1820s the U.S. was forcibly removing them to make way for westward expansion.
    Today, Native Americans are a legally protected minority but still face high rates of issues like unemployment, addiction and suicide.
    Sources suggest Cooper's main source of information for his Indian characters was Heckewelder's 1818 book on Native American history, manners and customs.
    Scholars have identified historical inaccuracies and deviations from chronology in Cooper's novel.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Summary - eNotes.com
That night, the party is surprised by a band of Iroquois led by Magua. Hawkeye, Heyward, and the rest might have a chance of victory, but unfortunately their ammunition, which was left in the canoe, has been stolen by one of the enemy.

    Major Heyward was ordered to escort Cora and Alice Munro to Fort William Henry where their father Colonel Munro commanded.
    On the way, they were led by a Huron guide named Magua who planned to lead them into a trap.
    Hawkeye and his Mohican friends Chingachgook and Uncas rescued the party and agreed to guide them to the fort.
    The party was ambushed by Iroquois led by Magua but Hawkeye and the Mohicans escaped.
    Cora, Alice and Heyward were captured and forced to walk while Magua demanded Cora's hand in marriage.
    Hawkeye and the Mohicans attacked the Iroquois, rescuing the party but Alice was taken by Magua.
    Fort William Henry surrendered to the French under terms that allowed the English to keep their arms.
    The French and their Indian allies massacred the English garrison despite the surrender terms.
    Hawkeye and the others tracked down and rescued Alice while Uncas was killed rescuing Cora.
    Cora and Uncas were buried in the forest while Alice, Heyward and Colonel Munro made it to safety.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Themes - eNotes.com
Cultural destruction: The war between the French colonists and the native tribes has resulted in the destruction of many tribal traditions, as represented by Chingachgook and Uncas's status as the last of the Mohicans.

    Heredity and lineage play an important role in the novel. Characters inherit titles and traits from their ancestors.
    The novel depicts the destruction of Native American culture through the death of Uncas and the degradation of Magua's character.
    Interacting with white culture leads to the destruction of Native American ways of life in the novel.
    The novel uses opposing forces as a major theme, such as French vs English and Indians vs whites.
    Hawkeye is contrasted with civilized and rude men to highlight his character.
    Uncas is used as a foil to multiple characters like Magua and Major Heyward.
    Uncas represents the ideal, noble Indian while Magua is the crafty, vicious savage.
    Uncas acts through his actions to show his love for Cora, while Heyward loves Alice through words.
    Hawkeye represents a natural, pagan world while David Gamut represents an ordered and civilized spirituality.
    Chingachgook is rash while Hawkeye is careful and reserved, providing a contrast between the two characters.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Summary & Study Guide
http://bookrags.com  › studyguide-lastmohicans › summary.html
Mar 12, 2014 This Study Guide consists of approximately 66 pages of chapter summaries, quotes, character analysis, themes, and more - everything you need to sharpen your knowledge of The Last of the Mohicans.

    The story takes place in 1757 during the French and Indian War.
    Cora and Alice Munro are escorted to Fort William Henry to meet their father, Colonel Munro.
    Major Duncan Heyward accompanies the Munro sisters along with David Gamut and Magua.
    Magua plans to ambush the group but they are rescued by Hawkeye and his Mohican friends, Chingachgook and Uncas.
    Hawkeye is also known as Natty Bumppo and Le Longue Carabine.
    Major Heyward falls in love with Alice.
    David Gamut is a ridiculous psalm singer and music teacher.
    The group was supposed to take a shortcut suggested by Magua.
    Magua is a mysterious and terrifying Huron.
    The journey begins as the story opens.

Discuss this document
The Last of Mohicans Essay Sample | Blog
writemyessayonline.com  › blog › romanticism-in-the-last-of-mohicans-essay
Mar 12, 2019 In The Last of the Mohicans, Cooper sets out to portray the relationships between the people belonging to different racial and ethnic groups, especially between the Native Americans and the settlers from the Old World.

    The novel shows the brutality of colonialism and the extermination of Native Americans, but from the perspective of a colonist who supported the British.
    Cooper sympathizes with the British and opposes the cruel French colonial policy.
    The novel depicts Native American tribes that sided with the French as cruel, while idealizing the British.
    The novel exhibits many features of Romanticism literature like a focus on nature, mystery, imagination, and heroic individualism.
    Nature plays an important role in the story, complicating the characters' journeys.
    The novel features characters that represent marginalized groups like Cora Munro, who is of African descent.
    Characters like Hawk-eye and the Mohicans represent idealized heroes who triumph over evil.
    The novel contains elements of fairy tales with a focus on imagination over rationality.
    The spiritual beliefs of the characters guide their actions rather than logic.
    The complex feelings and emotions of the characters exemplify a key aspect of Romanticism literature.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans Summary, Characters... - My Exam Solution
myexamsolution.com  › 2020 › 04 › the-last-of-mohicans-summary.html
Apr 19, 2020 This conception of the character wasn't fully realized within the Pioneers, however, because Cooper’s main concern with depicting frontier life led him to endow Leatherstocking with some comic traits and make his laments, at times, little quite whines or grumbles.

    The Last of the Mohicans is the second novel in James Fenimore Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales series, taking place during the French and Indian War in 1757.
    The novel follows Natty Bumppo, also known as Hawkeye, a frontiersman and skilled woodsman, and the last two surviving Mohican Indians, Chingachgook and his son Uncas.
    The plot involves Hawkeye and the Mohicans rescuing Munro's daughters, Alice and Cora, from the Huron tribe who are seeking revenge against Munro.
    Magua, a Huron, betrays the group and leads them in the wrong direction, but Hawkeye and the Mohicans rescue them.
    Magua later recaptures Cora and Alice, and a chase ensues with Hawkeye, the Mohicans and Munro pursuing Magua.
    Cora and Uncas are killed during the final battle, with Uncas stabbed in the back by Magua and Cora killed by a rogue Huron.
    Magua falls to his death after being shot by Hawkeye, leaving Chingachgook mourning the loss of his son Uncas.
    The Leatherstocking Tales series follows Natty Bumppo's life from youth to old age, idealizing the character over time.
    Cooper was involved in both cultural and political issues, founding the Bread and Cheese Club in New York and becoming more liberal after living in Europe.
    Cooper's popularity declined in the U.S. due to his championing of political democracy, which went against the views of the propertied reading class.

Discuss this document
MonkeyNotes Study Guide Summary-The Last of the Mohicans by...
pinkmonkey.com  › booknotes › monkeynotes › pmLastMohicans42.asp
Sep 15, 2008 In The Last of the Mohicans, the relationship between Hawkeye and Chingachgook form the crux of the book. His physical description aptly paints a picture of the man. He is well muscled, tan and sunburnt, with a "quick, keen, and restless" eye and an "expression of sturdy honesty."

    Hawkeye is the hero of the story. He is brave, practical and loyal to England. He is an expert hunter and tracker.
    Chingachgook is a wise and philosophical Mohican. He is an expert hunter and tracker. He is calm and stoic even in the face of death.
    Uncas is Chingachgook's son and the last of the Mohicans. He is a graceful and noble warrior.
    Hawkeye and Chingachgook have an unbreakable bond of friendship.
    Uncas has great respect for his father Chingachgook.
    Uncas is an expert hunter and tracker.
    Uncas is a keen fighter and strategist.
    Uncas dies courageously while trying to rescue Cora.
    Hawkeye mourns Uncas' death deeply.
    The relationship between Hawkeye and Chingachgook forms the crux of the story.

Discuss this document
"The Last of the Mohicans" by Cooper - 597 Words | Essay Example
ivypanda.com  › essays › the-last-of-the-mohicans-by-cooper
Jul 6, 2022 The importance of Hawkeye to the story told in The Last of the Mohicans can be explained through the numerous interconnections that help him channel his inner energy in a proper way.

    The majority of characters in The Last of the Mohicans are static, but some dynamic characters move the plot forward.
    Cooper introduced the idea that actions, communication, and authorial commentary can contribute to character development.
    Major Heyward is a static character who only changes due to his relationship with Alice Munro. He remains a typical soldier.
    Hawkeye is a main dynamic character who develops strong bonds with Uncas and Chingachgook. He remains just and loyal to his values.
    Hawkeye elevates throughout the story, becoming similar to a human messiah focused on salvation.
    However, Hawkeye also realizes he is just human, making him closer to Heyward than he thinks.
    Cooper's characters respond to the scenario, not readers' expectations, causing plot movement and a dynamic picture.
    The contrast between Heyward and Hawkeye is subtle but serves the purpose of moving the plot forward.
    The values represented by each character reveal what Cooper intends to unveil.
    Overall, Cooper achieves dynamic change through frontier conflicts and social interactions, not through character transformations themselves.

Discuss this document
"The Last of the Mohicans" by James Fenimore Cooper - 2772 Words
These rescues go on as the novel progresses, and finally, the Hurons capture Alice, Cora, and Heyward; only Cora survives. Magua kills Uncas and Colonel Monro but then later is killed by Chingachgook, the last of the Mohicans.
Analysis of The Last of the Mohicans essays
megaessays.com  › viewpaper › 52282.html
Apr 8, 2009 James Fennimore Cooper's book The Last of the Mohicans is designed to entertain us the way that any novel would, for it is replete with entertaining characters and swashbuckling deeds. However, Cooper also wanted to do more than simply entertain his readers.

    The novel contrasts and conflicts between different characters and groups, structured around the massacre at Fort William Henry.
    There are mirrored opposites between characters like Uncas and Magua, the "good" and "bad" Indian.
    The contrast between Uncas and Magua represents the fate of the Indians in America.
    While Natty Bumppo is the hero of the series, in this novel he does not show the mythical qualities of the isolated scout.
    Uncas and Magua are the protagonist and antagonist of the story, representing the vanishing Native Americans.
    Uncas embodies the noble characteristics of the proud Indians.
    Uncas infiltrates the Huron village to rescue the captured maidens.
    The story shifts to the mythical Indian territory in the second half.
    The setting represents a world where the Indians still hold power.
    Uncas represents the ultimate victims of the encroaching civilization of the white man.

Discuss this document
Summary of the Book The Last of the Mohicans
supreme-essay.net  › blog › summary-of-the-book-the-last-of-the-mohicans.html
Jul 26, 2018 This kind of personification is the clearest in the case of Uncas death that symbolizes the death of culture of the Native Americans. If you want to receive a paper on The Last of Mohicans, you can place an order at our site and our professional and talented writers will contact you.

    The book The Last of the Mohicans by James F. Cooper portrays Native Americans in a positive light.
    The author tries to show sympathy and understanding for Native Americans.
    The book depicts America as a pristine land untouched by European culture and religion.
    The relationship between characters like Chingachgook and Hawkeye highlights the positive qualities of friendship and community.
    The antagonist Magua represents negative qualities like violence and depravity.
    The author tries to make the reader sympathize with Native Americans by highlighting the negatives caused by other powers.
    The portrayal of Uncas symbolizes the demise of Native American culture.
    The book was written in 1826.
    The author sentimentalizes Native Americans in the book.
    The death of Uncas symbolizes the death of Native American culture.

Discuss this document
ROSYID'S BLOG: Book Report 3: The Last of The Mohicans
rosyid-unsoed.blogspot.com  › 2008 › 12 › book-report-3-last-of-mohicans.html
Feb 17, 2015 10. Meeting House of Delaware in Delawares Village The place where Tamenund told Delawares that Huron become their enemy after Tamenund know that Uncas is Chingachgook's son. 11. The rocks The place where the last battle happened between the Mohicans and Delawares with the Hurons.

    The story takes place in 1757 during the French and Indian War between England and France over land in North America.
    Hawkeye, Uncas, and Chingachgook rescue Cora and Alice Munro from an ambush planned by Magua, a Huron guide.
    Magua wants to take Cora as his wife to get revenge on her father, Colonel Munro.
    The British are forced to surrender Fort William Henry to the French, and they are then ambushed and massacred by Indians led by Magua.
    Uncas, Hawkeye, and Duncan rescue Alice and chase after Magua and Cora.
    The Delaware chief rules that Magua has a legitimate claim on Cora since he wants to marry her.
    Uncas is killed by Magua in a fight, and Magua is then shot dead by Hawkeye. Cora also dies in the fight.
    Alice marries Duncan and they live happily, while Hawkeye continues living in the forest with Chingachgook.
    Revenge only makes things worse, while kindness and good friends can help in difficult times.
    Loyalty to one's country is important and betrayal should be avoided.

Discuss this document
The Last of the Mohicans: Life, Race, and Human Relations - Essay
essaysforstudent.com  › essays › The-Last-of-the-Mohicans-Life-Race-and › 19197.html
Aug 1, 2016 Although the main theme for the climax of the novel is a lesson on revenge, there are other minor themes throughout the novel regarding life, race, and human relations. The main lesson on life that can be gained here would be that life is hard, short and precious.

    The major theme of the novel in relation to its climax is the lesson of revenge. The antagonist Magua seeks revenge on Colonel Munro for mistreating him.
    The protagonists, including Duncan, Hawkeye, Cora, Alice, Uncas and Chingachgook, band together and fight off Magua and the Hurons through courage and perseverance.
    The climax occurs when Magua kills Cora and Uncas, taking joy in finally achieving his revenge. However, his revenge ultimately leads to his own death.
    The novel teaches that revenge only breeds more pain and suffering, and does not accomplish anything of value.
    The novel teaches life lessons about living honorably and bravely, and cherishing each moment.
    The protagonists demonstrate character traits to emulate like love, loyalty, bravery and heroism.
    Magua's character, driven by anger and revenge, shows an example of poor morals and values.
    The novel also touches on themes of life, race and human relations.
    The novel teaches that life is precious and we should live our lives to the fullest.
    The frontier lifestyle depicted in the novel shows characters demonstrating love, loyalty, bravery and heroism.

Discuss this document
Literary Analysis Of The Last Of The Mohicans... | WOWESSAYS
wowessays.com  › free-samples › example-of-essay-on-literary-analysis-of-the-last-of-the-mohicans
Feb 18, 2020 Chingachgook is one of the last two surviving Mohicans who together with his son Uncas uses his intelligence and knowledge of the Hurons to overcome them. Cora Munro is a dark-skinned eldest daughter of Colonel Munro.

    The novel The Last of the Mohicans takes place during the British colonization of America in 1757.
    The plot follows the journey of Colonel Munro's daughters Cora and Alice, who are accompanied by Major Heyward and others.
    Hawkeye, a white woodsman, and his two Mohican friends Chingachgook and Uncas help rescue Munro's daughters from an ambush by Magua, a Huron Indian seeking revenge.
    Cora, the eldest daughter, is of mixed race and attracted to Uncas, while Alice is white.
    Themes include interracial love, the nature of war in a difficult terrain, and the role of religion.
    Symbolism is used extensively, like Hawkeye representing the harmony of European and Indian cultures.
    The title refers symbolically to the extinction of Indian culture by European civilization.
    The difficult terrain symbolizes the struggles of foreign civilizations establishing themselves.
    There are examples of hybridization, like Hawkeye being adept in Indian culture.
    The novel details racial and power struggles between the Hurons and the British army.

Discuss this document
More Results
Link copied to clipboard
Share This Search

    About
    Help
    Changelog
    Blog
    Privacy & Terms
    Status
    Universal Summarizer

    © Kagi. Humanize the Web.

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	






