Author Summary
=================

Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Keyboard shortcuts
Web
Academic
Forums
PDF Files
Programming
World News
Feedback
Help
Settings
Web
Images
Videos
Podcasts
News
Maps
Malaysia

Order By

Time

All Results

Quick Answer
34 relevant results in 1.63s. 20% unique Kagi results.
James Fenimore Cooper | American Novelist, Historian & Critic ...
britannica.com  › biography › James-Fenimore-Cooper
Jan 15, 2009 James Fenimore Cooper, (born September 15, 1789, Burlington, New Jersey, U.S.—died September 14, 1851, Cooperstown, New York), first major American novelist ...

    James Fenimore Cooper was the first major American novelist and is considered America's national novelist.
    He is best known for writing the Leatherstocking Tales series featuring the character Natty Bumppo, also known as Hawkeye or Leatherstocking.
    Cooper's background of growing up on the frontier in upstate New York provided inspiration for his novels set in the American wilderness.
    The Leatherstocking Tales series follows the life of Natty Bumppo from his youth to old age and depicts the conflict between the wilderness and the advancing frontier.
    The Last of the Mohicans takes place during Natty's middle age and shows him at the height of his powers.
    Cooper also wrote sea novels like The Red Rover and The Sea Lions that were popular and influential.
    Cooper's novels helped establish the sea story as a vehicle for spiritual and moral exploration.
    Natty Bumppo is portrayed as an idealized figure who represents the vanishing wilderness and Native Americans.
    Cooper wrote a History of the Navy of the United States of America that was meticulously researched and well-received.
    Writers like Mark Twain criticized Cooper's depictions of woodcraft but sailors like Herman Melville admired his sea stories.

Discuss this document
James Fenimore Cooper - Bread and Cheese Club... | Britannica
Squire Cooper had made himself especially vulnerable to popular feeling when, in 1837, he refused to let local citizens picnic on a family property known as Three Mile Point. This incident led to a whole series of charges of libel, and suits and countersuits by both the Whigs and Cooper.
James Fenimore Cooper - Wikipedia
en.wikipedia.org  › wiki › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Feb 10, 2007 James Fenimore Cooper (September 15, 1789 – September 14, 1851) was an American writer of the first half of the 19th century, whose historical romances ...

    James Fenimore Cooper was an American writer born in 1789. He is known for his historical romances set in colonial and frontier America.
    His most famous work is the Leatherstocking series, featuring the character Natty Bumppo. The Last of the Mohicans is considered his masterpiece.
    Cooper served in the U.S. Navy from 1808 to 1810 before resigning to get married. His naval experiences inspired some of his later works.
    Cooper moved his family to Europe in 1826 where he sought to gain more income from his books and observe European politics firsthand.
    Cooper criticized the corruption of the European aristocracy and defended the United States against European prejudices in his works.
    Cooper's naval histories were generally well-received though criticized on some points by contemporaries involved in the events he described.
    Cooper's later works addressing social issues and his perceived self-promotion led to criticism, especially from Whig party-aligned newspapers.
    Cooper spent his later years back in Cooperstown, New York where he donated generously to the local Episcopal church and became active in it.
    Cooper's works were popular worldwide and admired by authors like Balzac and Hugo, though later critics found fault with his characterization and portrayal of women.
    Cooper was honored with a commemorative stamp issued in 1940 and the James Fenimore Cooper Memorial Prize at New York University is awarded in his name.

Discuss this document
Paul Fenimore Cooper - Wikipedia
Top 10 Facts about James Fenimore Cooper - Discover Walks Blog
discoverwalks.com  › blog › united-states › top-10-facts-about-james-fenimore-cooper-discover-walks-blogs
Jul 5, 2023 Top 10 Facts about James Fenimore Cooper · 1. James F Cooper Contributed to the Creation of the American Literature Genre · 2. Cooper Lived in a ...

    James Fenimore Cooper contributed significantly to the creation of the American literature genre through works like The Leatherstocking Tales.
    Cooper grew up in Cooperstown, a town named after his family.
    Cooper was motivated to write his first novel after a wager with his wife.
    Cooper was a political commentator who aimed to awaken American nationalism through his writings.
    Cooper created the imagery of American Indians found in present-day American consciousness and literature through works like The Last of the Mohicans.
    Cooper was expelled from Yale University due to his outrageous pranks.
    Cooper served in the inaugural American Navy and drew inspiration from his experiences for his novels.
    Cooper advocated for democracy and criticized corruption in European regimes.
    Cooper's daughter Susan Fenimore Cooper also became an author, known for her work Rural Hours.
    Mark Twain criticized Cooper's works in his essay Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses.

Discuss this document
Fun Facts Friday: James Fenimore Cooper | Man of la Book
manoflabook.com  › wp › fun-facts-friday-james-fenimore-cooper
Dec 22, 2020 15 Sept 2017 ... Cooper was born in Burlington, NJ. He was the eleventh of 12 children. 2) In 1790 the family moved to upstate New York by Otsego Lake. The area ...

    James Fenimore Cooper was an American writer best known for the Leatherstocking Tales featuring Natty Bumppo.
    Cooper was born in Burlington, New Jersey and his family later moved to Cooperstown, New York which was named after him.
    Cooper was expelled from Yale University in his third year due to pranks he pulled.
    Cooper served in the US Navy and received his officer's warrant signed by Thomas Jefferson.
    Cooper's first novel Precaution was written after his wife bet him he couldn't write a better novel.
    Cooper's novel The Spy became a bestseller and inspired his friend John Jay.
    Cooper was one of the first American writers to include Native Americans and African Americans in his works.
    Cooper's novel Last of the Mohicans is considered his masterpiece.
    In 2013, Cooper was inducted into the New York Writers Hall of Fame.
    Cooper researched and wrote The History of the Navy of the United States of America after 14 years of research.

Discuss this document
Public Records
Oklahoma Court Record
oklahoma state of oklahoma v. hill, james fenimore no. tr-2012-2326 (traffic) filed ... 10/05/2012 closed: 10/30/2012 judge: unassigned parties hill, james fenimore ... at initial appearance (traffic) hill, james fenimore traffic court judge
Oklahoma Court Record
oklahoma state of oklahoma, plaintiff, v. fenimore james dean, defendant. no. tr ... general) parties fenimore, james dean , defendant state of oklahoma , plaintiff ... initial appearance (traffic) fenimore, james dean traffic court judge (general
Oklahoma Court Record
oklahoma state of oklahoma, plaintiff, v. fenimore james dean, defendant. no. tr ... general) parties fenimore, james dean , defendant state of oklahoma , plaintiff ... initial appearance (traffic) fenimore, james dean traffic court judge (general
Biography of James Fenimore Cooper
xroads.virginia.edu  › ~ug02 › COOPER › cooperbiography.html
James Fenimore Cooper was born on September 15, 1789 in Burlington, New Jersey, the eleventh of twelve children. When he was one year old, he moved with parents ...

    James Fenimore Cooper was born in 1789 in New Jersey and moved to Cooperstown, New York as a child.
    He attended Yale but was expelled for a prank involving blowing up a student's door. He then joined the Navy.
    He married Susan Augusta De Lancey in 1811 and began writing to make money after his brothers died.
    His first novel, Precaution, was published in 1820 at his wife's suggestion.
    His novel The Spy was published in 1821 and was the first historical romance about the American Revolution.
    The Pioneers, published in 1823, featured Natty Bumppo and explored themes of civilization vs. wilderness.
    Cooper lived in Europe for 7 years, writing historical novels inspired by Walter Scott.
    Upon returning to the U.S., Cooper was criticized for being out of touch and became embroiled in lawsuits against newspapers.
    He wrote several more Leatherstocking Tales and books about the U.S. Navy, drawing on his experience as a sailor.
    Cooper was more respected abroad than at home at the time of his death in 1851, though he contributed to the genre of American fiction.

Discuss this document
James Fenimore Cooper Biography, Life, Interesting Facts
sunsigns.org  › famousbirthdays › profile › james-fenimore-cooper
Mar 30, 2018 Three years after his son’s death in 1823, James Fenimore Cooper together with his family migrated to Europe.James Fenimore Cooper left a legacy behind for being one of the most highly acclaimed authors of the 19th century.

    James Fenimore Cooper was born in 1789 in New Jersey and became a famous American writer during the 19th century.
    His writing career began after a wager with his wife that he could write an exciting book. His first published book was Precaution in 1820.
    Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales series, which featured the character Natty Bumppo, made him popular nationwide. The Last of the Mohicans was a commercial success.
    Cooper spent close to a decade living in Europe and published several books there before returning to the U.S. in 1833.
    Cooper's works began to feature Native Americans and African Americans as characters, which was uncommon at the time.
    The Last of the Mohicans remains one of Cooper's most successful and widely read works.
    Cooper was honored with a commemorative stamp in 1940 for being one of the leading writers of the 19th century.
    Cooper passed away in 1851 at the age of 61.
    The Pioneers, published in 1823, was the first book in Cooper's Leatherstocking series.
    Cooper's early works focused on manners and morals in society, influenced by Jane Austen.

Discuss this document
James Fenimore Cooper | Encyclopedia.com
encyclopedia.com  › people › literature-and-arts › american-literature-biographies › james-fenimore-cooper
Novelist and social critic James Fenimore Cooper (1789-1851) was the first major American writer to deal imaginatively with American life, notably in his five " ...
James Fenimore Cooper Biography
cliffsnotes.com  › literature › d › the-deerslayer › james-fenimore-cooper-biography
In 1821 Cooper published The Spy, critically acclaimed as the first important historical novel in American literature. Cooper described the adventures of a ...
10 Interesting James Fenimore Cooper Facts | My Interesting Facts
myinterestingfacts.com  › james-fenimore-cooper-facts
Apr 14, 2016 James Fenimore Cooper Facts 4: the other works of Cooper. Cooper also created different kinds of works. The Leatherstocking Tales are considered as the famous historical novels of Cooper that he created about during the frontier period.

    James Fenimore Cooper spent most of his time living in Cooperstown, New York. He studied at Yale University for 3 years before leaving due to misbehavior.
    Cooper first worked as a Midshipman in the U.S Navy before becoming a writer, which inspired his novels.
    Cooper's influential novel The Spy, published in 1821, made him popular. It was set during the Revolutionary War and focused on counterespionage.
    Cooper wrote The Leatherstocking Tales, famous historical novels set during the frontier period. He also wrote sea stories.
    Cooper's masterpiece is considered to be The Last of the Mohicans, a romantic novel.
    Cooper was born in 1789 in Burlington, New Jersey. He was the 11th of 12 children, though most died in childhood.
    Cooper's ancestor James Cooper immigrated from Stratford-upon-Avon, England to the American colonies in 1679.
    Cooper studied at Yale at age 13 but left after 3 years due to a prank.
    After leaving Yale, Cooper worked as a sailor and became a crew member at age 17.
    Cooper married Susan Augusta de Lancey when he was 21 years old.

Discuss this document
Fast Facts about John F. Kennedy | JFK Library
jfklibrary.org  › learn › about-jfk › life-of-john-f-kennedy › fast-facts-john-f-kennedy
... Black Beauty by Anna Sewell; Story of a Bad Boy by Thomas B. Aldrich; Wing and Wing by James Fenimore Cooper; Biography of a Grizzly by Ernest T. Seton ...
Iowa Pictures and Facts
kids.nationalgeographic.com  › geography › states › article › iowa
Jul 20, 0007 Some say the name honors a Native American chief, Black Hawk. Others claim it was inspired by a character named Hawkeye in James Fenimore Cooper's book, The ...
15 interesting facts about Fenimore Cooper
howtodoright.com  › 15-interesting-facts-about-fenimore-cooper
Feb 1, 2020 Fenimore Cooper has traveled a lot in his life. In Europe, he spent a total of about seven years . His works have been repeatedly filmed in ...

    Fenimore Cooper is one of the most famous American writers who worked in the genre of adventure literature.
    Many of Cooper's works were translated into Russian and widely read by Soviet children.
    English critics also praised Cooper's work, calling him the American Walter Scott.
    Cooper traveled a lot in his life, spending about 7 years in Europe.
    His works have been adapted into films in different countries.
    Cooper lived for a considerable part of his life in the village of Cooperstown, which was founded by his father.
    Cooper's daughter Susan also became a successful writer.
    Cooper's first novel was published anonymously due to fears of criticism from British writers.
    Cooper served in the Navy during his youth.
    Cooper's first books were published in Russian translation more than 150 years ago.

Discuss this document
James Fenimore Cooper - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help
kids.britannica.com  › students › article › James-Fenimore-Cooper › 273798
Nov 4, 2017 (1789–1851). The first American novelist to achieve worldwide fame was James Fenimore Cooper.15, 1789. When he was a year old the family moved to a large estate on Otsego Lake, N.Y. Here his father, William Cooper, laid out Cooperstown.
James Fenimore Cooper Biography - Childhood, Life Achievements...
thefamouspeople.com  › profiles › james-fenimore-cooper-1735.php
Sep 6, 2014 James Fenimore Cooper was the eleventh of the twelve children born to William Cooper and Elizabeth Cooper, in Burlington, New Jersey.From a very young age, James Cooper was a follower of the Episcopal Church and remained an active member of the Church throughout his life.
Fenimore Cooper short biography and interesting facts
http://en.brieffacts.org  › fenimor-kuper-kratkaya-biografiya-i-interesnyie-faktyi_default.htm
Mar 20, 2018 Fenimore Cooper Short Biography. The future American writer was born in 1879 in the city of Burlington (New Jersey) in the family of a farmer.In 1826, James took the double surname Fenimore-Cooper in honor of his maternal relatives.
28 Interesting Facts about James Fenimore Cooper - World's Facts
worldsfacts.com  › 28-interesting-facts-about-james-fenimore-cooper
Apr 21, 2023 Despite initial criticism of his writing style and political views, Cooper’s works have remained popular and influential. He is considered one of the first great American novelists and his depictions of the American frontier have had a lasting impact on American literature. James Fenimore Cooper.
NN | James Fenimore Cooper
neptunesneedle.github.io  › people › jamesfenimorecooper
Apr 20, 2019 Cooper was to write five more novels, [including] Jack Tier (1848), dealing with treachery at sea during the Mexican War, and The Sea Lions (1849), a novel of seal hunting in the Antarctic.
James Fenimore Cooper
greencardamom.github.io  › BooksAndWriters › jfcooper.htm
Oct 5, 2016 James Fenimore Cooper was born in Burlington, New Jersey, the son of Quakers, Judge William Cooper and Elisabeth Fenimore Cooper.The Correspondence of James Fenimore Cooper, 1922 (2 vols., edited by his grandson, James Fenimore Cooper).
James Fenimore Cooper: A Painter in the Mind | by Patricia... | Medium
medium.com  › @PatriciaKeeley › james-fenimore-cooper-a-painter-in-the-mind-205c1bee7a14
Dec 23, 2017 James Fenimore Cooper: A Painter in the Mind.James Fenimore Cooper is a writer who expertly is able to paint the setting of a scene in a manner that allows the world to breath with life around the characters, like a stage backdrop made from organic materials.
James Fenimore Cooper Facts for Kids
kids.kiddle.co  › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Aug 21, 2017 His father was a United States Congressman. James Fenimore was one year old when his family moved to Cooperstown, New York.James Fenimore Cooper. The young Cooper, in Midshipman's naval uniform.
James Fenimore Cooper - Biography and Literary Works of James...
literarydevices.net  › james-fenimore-cooper
Apr 2, 2021 Biography, literary works and style of James Fenimore Cooper.James Fenimore Cooper’s literary ideas, historic information, and genuine romances won global readers and audiences. His works not only touched the hearts of the audience but also impacted the writers and critics alike.
James Fenimore Cooper | Encyclopedia.com
http://encyclopedia-loadbalancer-1-1782916326.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com  › people › literature-and-arts › american-literature-biographies › james-fenimore-cooper
May 17, 2023 James Fenimore Cooper introduced the themes of the frontier, white/Indian conflict, and America's westward expansion as proper subjects for literary works.Born on September 15, 1789, James Cooper was the twelfth of thirteen children born to William Cooper and Elizabeth Fenimore Cooper.
ww-article-cache-1.s3.amazonaws.com/en/James_Fenimore_Cooper
ww-article-cache-1.s3.amazonaws.com  › en › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Nov 20, 2017 James Fenimore Cooper (September 15, 1789 – September 14, 1851) was an American writer of the first half of the 19th century, whose historical romances depicting colonial and indigenous characters from the 17th to the 19th centuries brought him fame and fortune.
James Fenimore Cooper | Biography, Books and Facts
famousauthors.org  › james-fenimore-cooper
Dec 1, 2015 James Fenimore Cooper was an established early nineteenth century American writer. He prolifically penned historical fiction and was a major proponent of Romanticism. He is famous for writing a romantic masterpiece, The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper Biography | Life, Facts & Books - Golden...
nocloo.com  › james-fenimore-cooper-biography
Apr 11, 2021 His lack of amusement came to a boil in 1897 with an essay called “Fenimore Cooper’s Literary Offences,” which is as savage an attack as one writer ever made on another.James Fenimore Cooper spent the last years of his life back in Cooperstown.
James Fenimore Cooper | Life, Facts & Books - Golden Age...
Translations in French, German, and Italian soon appeared. With its international fame, The Spy set the standard for romantic, historical American novels and launched Cooper’s career as a writer of heroic American dramas; his historic tales soon rivaled those of England’s Sir Walter Scott.
James Fenimore Cooper | Military Wiki | Fandom
military-history.fandom.com  › wiki › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Apr 14, 2019
James Fenimore Cooper | Marvel Database | Fandom
marvel.fandom.com  › wiki › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Jan 24, 2019
James Fenimore Cooper - New World Encyclopedia
newworldencyclopedia.org  › entry › James_Fenimore_Cooper
Feb 9, 2009
More Results
Link copied to clipboard
Share This Search

    About
    Help
    Changelog
    Blog
    Privacy & Terms
    Status
    Universal Summarizer

    © Kagi. Humanize the Web.

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


